# Spatial-Data-Visualization-for-FFSM

Introduction
-------------

This is a visualization of the following variables (unit), in the Indian sub-continent:
- Skin Temperature (K)
- Total Precipitation (m)
- Evaporation (m of water equivalent)
- Heavy Vegetation (m/s²)
- Low Vegetation (m/s²)
- 2m Dewpoint Temperature (K)
- Skin Reservoir Content (m)

Using the ```ncdf4``` & ```fields``` libraries in R respectively. The purpose of this activity being: exploratory data analysis for future use in creating a forest fire susceptibility model for the Indian sub-continent.

Variable Descriptions
-------------------------

- **Skin Temperature** (K):
Temperature of the surface of the Earth. The skin temperature is the theoretical temperature that is required to satisfy the surface energy balance. It represents the temperature of the uppermost surface layer, which has no heat capacity and so can respond instantaneously to changes in surface fluxes. Skin temperature is calculated differently over land and sea. Temperature measured in kelvin can be converted to degrees Celsius (°C) by subtracting 273.15.

- **Total Precipitation** (m):
Accumulated liquid and frozen water, including rain and snow, that falls to the Earth's surface. It is the sum of large-scale precipitation (that precipitation which is generated by large-scale weather patterns, such as troughs and cold fronts) and convective precipitation (generated by convection which occurs when air at lower levels in the atmosphere is warmer and less dense than the air above, so it rises). Precipitation variables do not include fog, dew or the precipitation that evaporates in the atmosphere before it lands at the surface of the Earth. This variable is accumulated from the beginning of the forecast time to the end of the forecast step. The units of precipitation are depth in metres. It is the depth the water would have if it were spread evenly over the grid box. Care should be taken when comparing model variables with observations, because observations are often local to a particular point in space and time, rather than representing averages over a model grid box and model time step.

- **Evaporation** (m of water equivalent):
Accumulated amount of water that has evaporated from the Earth's surface, including a simplified representation of transpiration (from vegetation), into vapour in the air above. This variable is accumulated from the beginning of the forecast to the end of the forecast step. The ECMWF Integrated Forecasting System convention is that downward fluxes are positive. Therefore, negative values indicate evaporation and positive values indicate condensation.

- **Heavy Vegetation** (m/s²):
One-half of the total green leaf area per unit horizontal ground surface area for high vegetation type.

- **Low Vegetation** (m/s²):
One-half of the total green leaf area per unit horizontal ground surface area for low vegetation type.

- **2m Dewpoint Temperature** (K):
Temperature to which the air, at 2 metres above the surface of the Earth, would have to be cooled for saturation to occur.It is a measure of the humidity of the air. Combined with temperature and pressure, it can be used to calculate the relative humidity. 2m dew point temperature is calculated by interpolating between the lowest model level and the Earth's surface, taking account of the atmospheric conditions. Temperature measured in kelvin can be converted to degrees Celsius (°C) by subtracting 273.15.

- **Skin Reservoir Content** (m):
Amount of water in the vegetation canopy and/or in a thin layer on the soil. It represents the amount of rain intercepted by foliage, and water from dew. The maximum amount of 'skin reservoir content' a grid box can hold depends on the type of vegetation, and may be zero. Water leaves the 'skin reservoir' by evaporation.

Citations
------------

*Generated using Copernicus Climate Change Service information 2021*
*Contains modified Copernicus Climate Change Service information 2021*

Muñoz Sabater, J., (2019): ERA5-Land hourly data from 1981 to present. Copernicus Climate Change Service (C3S) Climate Data Store (CDS). (Accessed on 24-Sep-2021), 10.24381/cds.e2161bac
